Problem
On the Appointment Details page, the "Create Billing for Selected" button allows creating multiple invoices/bills for the same treatment. There is no check to see if a billing/invoice already exists for a treatment. This leads to duplicate invoices and incorrect financial records.
Fix: Prevent Duplicate Billing Per Treatment
1. Backend: Track Billing Status Per Treatment

Each treatment record should have a field (or a relationship) that tracks whether billing has already been created:

Option A: Add a billing_id foreign key column on the treatments table. When a bill is created for a treatment, store the associated invoice ID. If billing_id IS NOT NULL, the treatment is already billed.
Option B: Add a billed boolean flag on the treatments table. Set to true when billing is created.
Option A is preferred because it maintains the direct link to the invoice.



2. Backend: Validate Before Creating Billing

In the Create Billing API endpoint, before creating a new invoice for selected treatments:

  For each selected treatment_id:
    Check if treatment already has a billing_id / invoice linked
    If YES → reject with error: "Treatment '{name}' already has an invoice (Invoice #{invoice_number}). Cannot create duplicate billing."
    If NO → proceed

Return a 400 error with a clear message listing which treatments are already billed.

3. Frontend: Disable Selection of Already-Billed Treatments

When rendering the treatment list with checkboxes:

If a treatment already has billing created, show it with:

✅ A "Billed" badge/tag (green) next to the treatment name
🔗 A link to the existing invoice (e.g., "View Invoice #1234")
☐ The checkbox should be disabled (greyed out, not selectable)


If a treatment has no billing yet:

☐ Checkbox is enabled and selectable as normal





4. Frontend: Update "Create Billing for Selected" Button State

If all treatments in the appointment are already billed:

Hide or disable the "Create Billing for Selected" button entirely
Show a message: "All treatments have been billed." with links to view the invoices.


If some are billed and some aren't:

Only allow selecting the un-billed treatments
The button remains active for the un-billed ones



5. After Billing is Created

Once billing is successfully created for selected treatments:

Update each treatment's billing_id with the new invoice ID
Refresh the treatment list to show the "Billed" badge
Disable the checkboxes for those treatments
Optionally show a success toast: "Invoice #1234 created for 2 treatments." with a link to the invoice



6. Edge Case: Deleted Invoices

If an invoice linked to a treatment is deleted, clear the treatment's billing_id back to null so it becomes billable again.

Also Fix: Duplicate Navbar at Bottom
The screenshot still shows the BELLA DENT navbar duplicated at the bottom of the page. This global layout bug persists — ensure the navbar renders only once at the top. Check the root layout component for duplicate rendering.